 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 | Mamook(R) Software                                                           |
 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 | Copyright (c) 2000-2005 University of Victoria.  All rights reserved.        |
 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 | THE LICENSED WORK IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THE ADAPTIVE PUBLIC LICENSE |
 | ("LICENSE") AS FIRST COMPLETED BY: The University of Victoria. ANY USE,      |
 | PUBLIC DISPLAY, PUBLIC PERFORMANCE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF, OR      |
 | PREPARATION OF DERIVATIVE WORKS BASED ON, THE LICENSED WORK CONSTITUTES      |
 | RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS LICENSE AND ITS TERMS, WHETHER OR NOT SUCH    |
 | RECIPIENT READS THE TERMS OF THE LICENSE. "LICENSED WORK" AND "RECIPIENT"    |
 | ARE DEFINED IN THE LICENSE. A COPY OF THE LICENSE IS LOCATED IN THE TEXT     |
 | FILE ENTITLED "LICENSE.TXT" ACCOMPANYING THE CONTENTS OF THIS FILE. IF A     |
 | COPY OF THE LICENSE DOES NOT ACCOMPANY THIS FILE, A COPY OF THE LICENSE MAY  |
 | ALSO BE OBTAINED AT THE FOLLOWING WEB SITE: http://www.mamook.net            |  
 |                                                                              |
 | Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,   |
 | WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for |
 | the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.    | 
 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Filename: job_desc_table_documentation.txt                                   |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

This file's purpose is to document all of the tables currently used in recruitSource,
by the job descriptions module.  As the number of tables in the database is rapidly 
increasing in size, it is becoming very important to document the purpose and use of 
each table in the database.  

This document was created on Mar 20, 2003.

Documentation follows the following format:

Table Name

Table's Purpose


	Column Name

	Column's Purpose

	2nd Column's Name

	2nd Column's Purpose

	etc.

-----------------

2nd Table Name

2nd Table's Purpose

etc.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: admin_status

Purpose: This table is used to store the different types of statuses that an administrator
set for a job


    Column Name: status_id

    Purpose: This is the primary key for this table

    Column Name: status_name

    Purpose: This is the name of this status

    Column Name: job_status_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key that relates to the job_status table.  Every status
    in this table falls under the category of one of the statuses in the job_status table.

    Column Name: order_by

    Purpose: This is the order under which these status should be displayed on screen.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: department_discipline_join

Purpose: This table is used to join disciplines to departments


    Column Name: department_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key representing a department from the department table.

    Column Name: discipline_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key representing a discipline from the discipline table.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: department_disciplines

Purpose: This table is used to store the disciplines related to each department (in the department
table)


    Column Name: discipline_id

    Purpose: This is the primary key for this table.

    Column Name: discipline_name

    Purpose: This is the name of this discipline.

    Column Name: discipline_code

    Purpose: This is the code used to refer to this discipline (so Software Engineering
    may be represented as SEng)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: department_job_join

Purpose: This table is used to link departments to a job.  An entry in this table
represents a department as being applicable to have its students apply to the specific
job.


    Column Name: department_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the department table.

    Column Name: job_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the job_info table.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: job_discipline_join

Purpose: This table is used to link disciplines to a job.  An entry in this table means
that the specified job has been set as applicable to students in the specified discipline.


    Column Name: job_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the job that has had this discipline marked
    as applicable for it.

    Column Name: discipline_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the discipline that has been marked as applicable
    to the specified job.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: job_hiring_status

Purpose: This table is used by job applications to determine how the hiring for the job has proceded 
(so, for example, "Pending", "UVic", "Elsewhere")


    Column Name: status_id

    Purpose: This is the primary key for this table.

    Column Name: status_name

    Purpose: This is the name of this hiring_status.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: job_info

Purpose: This table stores all of the information for a given job in the database.
This field also provides job_id's for interviews in order to ensure that job_id's 
in the system all correspond.  

	Column Name: job_id

	Purpose: This is the id number used to keep track of all the jobs
	and interviews in the database.  This is the primary key for the
	table.

	Column Name: employer_id

	Purpose: This is the id number of the company that this job is 
	posted with.  

	Column Name: department_id

	Purpose: This is the id number of the company department that
	this job is posted with.  This may or may not have a value,
	depending on whether or not the job is posted with a company
	that HAS departments.

	Column Name: job_code

	Purpose: This is the job code for the job.

	Column Name: employer_code

	Purpose: This field stores the internal employer code
	for this job.

	Column Name: term_id

	Purpose: This is the id number that corresponds to the term
	that this job is in.  This corresponds to the 'term' table.

	Column Name: year

	Purpose: This is the year that the job is in.

	Column Name: position_title

	Purpose: This is the title of the position, or the job name.

	Column Name: num_positions

	Purpose: This is the number of positions that are available 
	for a given job.

	Column Name: apply_method

	Purpose: This is the method that the employer would like to
	receive applications for this job.  This will typically be
	either paper or online.

	Column Name: receive_address

	Purpose: If the employer has indicated that they would like
	to receive applications online instead of paper, then this
	field holds the email address that applications will be 
	sent to.  

	Column Name: country_id

	Purpose: This field contains the id number that corresponds 
	to the country that the job is in.

	Column Name: provstate_id

	Purpose: This field contains the id number of the province
	or state that the job is in.  This field will only have a 
	value if the job is in Canada or the US.

	Column Name: region_id

	Purpose: This field contains the id number of the region
	that the job is in.  This field will only have a value
	if the job is in certain Canadian provinces.

	Column Name: city

	Purpose: This field contains the name of the city that
	the job is in.

	Column Name: salary_amount1

	Purpose: This field contains either the first part of the
	salary range for the job, or the actual salary for the job.
	Both this and 'salary_amount2' will hold the same values if
	there is an actual salary amount for the job rather than a
	range.

	Column Name: salary_amount2

	Purpose: This field contains the second part of the salary
	range for the job, or the actual salary amount if its value
	is the same as salary_amount1.

	Column Name: salary_period

	Purpose: This field stores the period of time over which
	the salary range/amount indicated by salary_amount1 and
	salary_amount2 will be paid on.  This can have values of
	'hour', 'week', '2 weeks', 'month', and 'year'.

	Column Name: workterm_hours

	Purpose: This field stores the number of hours that 
	successful applicants will be expected to work a week.

	Column Name: closing_date

	Purpose: This field stores the date that this job closes
	on.  This field coupled with the closing_time field
	determine when the job's status is changed to 'CLOSED'.

	Column Name: closing_time

	Purpose: This field stores the time of day that this job
	closes at.

	Column Name: workterm_lengths

	Purpose: This field stores a string containing all of the
	lengths of workterm that this job can have, delimited by
	commas.  Eg.  If this job is hiring for a 4 month workterm
	or a 16 month workterm, this field will hold the string
	"4,16".

	Column Name: other_postings

	Purpose: This field stores the names of the other 
	institutions that this job is posted at.

	Column Name: job_description

	Purpose: This field stores the description for the
	job.

	Column Name: contact_id

	Purpose: This field stores the contact id that 
	corresponds with the contact (in the contact table)
	for this job.  Eg.  If the contact for this job
	has the contact_id of 254 in the contact table,
	then this field will hold the value 254.

	Column Name: min_academic

	Purpose: This field stores the minimum academic
	year that has been completed required for this job.
	Eg.  If applicants must have completed first year
	to be hired for this job, this field will hold a
	value of 1.

	Column Name: min_workterms

	Purpose: This field stores the minimum number
	of workterms that applicants must have completed
	for this job.  Eg.  If applicants must have 
	completed 2 workterms to be hired for this job,
	this field will hold a value of 2.

	Column Name: skills_required

	Purpose: This field holds the skills that are
	required or will be developed by those hired for 
	this job.

	Column Name: special_requirements

	Purpose: This field holds any special requirements
	that are necessary to be hired for this job, if there
	are any.  Eg.  Successful applicant must be returning
	for an academic term upon completion of this workterm.

	Column Name: comments

	Purpose: This field contains comments that are seen
	by both the employer and co-op staff.  Both of these
	levels of users may change this field.

	Column Name: admin_comments

	Purpose: This field contains comments that are seen
	only by co-op staff, and can only be changed by them.

	Column Name: status

	Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the job_status table,
    and represents the status of this job.

	Column Name: date_posted

	Purpose: This field contains the date that this
	job was added to the database.

	Column Name: entered_by

	Purpose: This field contains the contact_id of the
	co-op staff member that added this job to the database.

	Column Name: last_updated_on

	Purpose: This field contains the date that this job was 
	last updated on.

	Column Name: last_updated_by

	Purpose: This field contains the login_id of the person that
	last updated this job.

    Column Name: last_updated_time

    Purpose: This is the time that this record was last updated on.

	Column Name: student_status

	Purpose: This field contains the id number that corresponds
	with the student status this job has.  Eg.  If this job
	currently has a student status of 'Accepting Applications',
	and that status has an id number of '4', then this field
	will contain the value of 4.

	Column Name: resumes_pulled

	Purpose: This field contains an integer that represents a
	boolean value.  If resumse have been pulled for this job,
	this field contains a 1, otherwise it contains a 0.

	Column Name: employer_department_id

	Purpose: This field contains the id number that corresponds
	(in the employer_department table) to the company's department 
	that this job is posted with.

    Column Name: industry

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the industries table, and represents the main
    industry that this companmy is a part of.

    Column Name: internal_contact_id

    Purpose: This is an unused field, and should be deleted in future releases.

    Column Name: is_rejectable

    Purpose: This is an int value that represents whether or not this job can
    be rejected.  When an employer enters a new job, there is a period during which
    that job can be rejected.  Once that period has passed, this field will hold
    a '0' value

    Column Name: filled

    Purpose: This field is an integer representing a boolean value denoting whether or
    not this job has been filled.  When there are a number of placement records equal
    to the num_positions value for this record, this field will be set to '1'.

    Column Name: interview_term_id

    Purpose: This field is a foreign key relating to the term table, and represents the
    term that this job's associated interview takes place in.

    Column Name: interview_year

    Purpose: This is the year that this job's associated interview takes place in.

    Column Name: hiring_status

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the job_hiring_status table, and represents
    how the hiring for the job has proceded.

    Column Name: admin_status

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the admin_status table, and represents
    the status that this job currently has.  This field offers a finer level of granularity
    over that of the job_status table, and is used more by the users of the system, rather
    than the system itself.

    Column Name: special_instructions

    Purpose: Some jobs require special measures be taken to apply for them.  In such a case,
    those special instructions are held in this field.

    Column Name: special_instr_button

    Purpose: If this job has a special requirement to apply for it, office staff may create a
    special button that users may click on to indicate that they have fulfilled these requirements.
    The text written on this button is contained in this field.

    Column Name: show_special_instr_button

    Purpose: This field is an integer representing whether or not the special instruction button
    should be displayed.  If this field holds a '1', the button will be displayed.

    Column Name: employer_status

    Purpose: This field represents the status of this job that employers see.  This field is not yet
    used, but will be in future iterations.

    Column Name: interview_notify_sent

    Purpose:  This field is an integer representing whether or not an employer has sent in their
    interview shortlist yet.  If the shortlist has been sent, this field will have a '1'.

    Column Name: hold_begin_datetime

    Purpose: This is the date and time that this job entered the holding cycle.

    Column Name: hold_end_datetime

    Purpose: This is the date and time that this job left the holding cycle.

    Column Name: date_posted

    Purpose: This is the date that this job was entered into the system.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: job_status

Purpose: This table is used to store the status of a job.  These statuses are the high-level statuses
and do not offer only a low-level of granularity, eg. "Open", "Closed", "Cancelled".


    Column Name: status_id

    Purpose: This is the primary key for this table.

    Column Name: status_name

    Purpose: This is the name of this status.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: pending_employer_company

Purpose: This table holds employer_company information that has been entered by a brand
new employer.  This information is held in this table until the employer has been approved
by an Employer Service Co-ordinator, at which point it is transferred to the employer_company
table.


    Column Name: employer_id

    Purpose: This is the primary key for this table.  This value does not represent a 
    foreign key relation to the 'employer_company' table.

    Column Name: company_name

    Purpose: This is the name of the company.

    Column Name: company_website

    Purpose: This is the URL to the pending company's website

    Column Name: company_description

    Purpose: This is a description of the pending company.

    Column Name: street_address_1

    Purpose: This is the first line of the company's street address.

    Column Name: street_address_2

    Purpose: This is the second line of the company's street address.

    Column Name: street_address_3

    Purpose: This is the third line of the company's street address.

    Column Name: city

    Purpose: This is the city out of which this company operates.

    Column Name: provstate_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the provstate_list table, and 
    represents the province or state out of which this company operates.  This field
    only holds a value if the company operates out of a country for which we allow
    a choice of provinces and states.

    Column Name: country_id

    Purpose: This is a forien key relating to the country_list table, and
    represents the country out of which this company operates.

    Column Name: postal_code

    Purpose: This is the postal code for this company.

    Column Name: phone

    Purpose: This is the phone number for this company

    Column Name: fax

    Purpose: This is the fax number for this company

    Column Name: email

    Purpose: This is the main email address for this company

    Column Name: department_name

    Purpose: This is the department for which the contact that has been added with this company,
    works at.

    Column Name: industry_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the industries table, and represents the main
    industry that this companmy is a part of.

    Column Name: size_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the employer_sizes table, and represents the size
    range that this company falls under.

    Column Name: entered_on

    Purpose: This is the date that this company was entered into the system.

    Column Name: region_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the region_list table, and represents the region
    that this company operates out of.  This only holds a value if the company operates out of
    a province or state for which we allow a choice of regions.

    Column Name: company_type_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the company_type table, and represents the type
    of company this is, relative to its level of government involvement (see the company_size
    table description for more elaboration).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: pending_employer_contact

Purpose: This table holds contact information that has been entered by a brand
new employer.  This information is held in this table until the employer has been approved
by an Employer Service Co-ordinator, at which point it is transferred to the contact and
contact_employer tables.

    
    Column Name: employer_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the pending_employer_company table
    (NOT employer_company), and represents the company that this contact works for.

    Column Name: contact_id

    Purpose: This is the primary key for this table.  This field does NOT relate to
    the 'contact' or 'contact_employer' table as a foreign key.

    Column Name: title

    Purpose: This is the title given to this contact.  Eg. "Mr", "Mrs", etc.

    Column Name: first_name

    Purpose: This is the contact's first name.

    Column Name: last_name

    Purpose: This is the contact's last name.

    Column Name: called_name

    Purpose: This is the name that the contact goes as.

    Column Name: middle_name

    Purpose: This is the contact's middle name.

    Column Name: email

    Purpose: This is the contact's e-mail address.

    Column Name: phone

    Purpose: This is the contact's phone number.

    Column Name: pager

    Purpose: This is the contact's pager number.
    
    Column Name: cellphone

    Purpose: This is the contact's cellphone number.

    Column Name: fax

    Purpose: This is the contact's fax number.

    Column Name: street_address_1

    Purpose: This is the first line of this contact's street address.

    Column Name: street_address_2

    Purpose: This is the second line of this contact's street address.

    Column Name: street_address_3

    Purpose: This is the third line of this contact's street address.

    Column Name: country_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the country_list table, and
    represents the country that this contact lives in.

    Column Name: provstate_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the provstate_list table, and 
    represents the province or state that this contact lives in.  This field
    only holds a value if the contact lives in a country for which we allow
    a choice of provinces and states.

    Column Name: region_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the region_list table, and represents the region
    that this contact lives in.  This only holds a value if the contact lives in a province or 
    state for which we allow a choice of regions.

    Column Name: city

    Purpose: This is the city that the contact lives in.

    Column Name: postal_code

    Purpose: This is the postal code for this contact's mailing address.

    Column Name: entered_on

    Purpose: This is the date that this contact was entered into the system.

    Column Name: department_name

    Purpose: This is the name of the department that this contact works under, at their
    company.

    Column Name: ip_added_with

    Purpose: This is the IP Address that was used to add this record.

    Column Name: module

    Purpose: This column represents whether this information is actually part of the
    'new_employer' module (as it was designed for), or as part of the 'evaluation' module
    (which was added after this).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: pending_job_description

Purpose: This table holds job description information that has been entered by a brand
new employer.  This information is held in this table until the employer has been approved
by an Employer Service Co-ordinator, at which point it is transferred to the job_info.

    
    Column Name: job_id

    Purpose: This is the primary key for this table.  This field does NOT relate, as a foreign
    key, to the job_info table.

    Column Name: employer_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the pending_employer_company table, and represents
    the company that posted this job.

    Column Name: contact_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the pending_employer_contact table, and represents
    the contact that has posted this job.

    Column Name: term_id

    Purpose: This is foreign key relating to the term table, and represents the term that this
    job is posted for.

    Column Name: year

    Purpose: This is the year that this job is posted for.

    Column Name: position_title

    Purpose:  This is the title of the position for this job.

    Column Name: employer_code

    Purpose: This is the internal code that employers use to refer to this job.

    Column Name: num_positions

    Purpose: This is the number of positions that the employer is hiring for this job.

    Column Name: apply_method

    Purpose: This is the means by which applicants should apply for this job.  Eg. "Paper",
    "Online", etc.

    Column Name: receive_address

    Purpose: This is the e-mail address to which online applications should be sent.

    Column Name: country_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the country_list table, and represents the 
    country that this job is in.

    Column Name: provstate_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the provstate_list table, and represents the
    province or state that this job is in.  This field only holds a value if the job is in
    a country for which we allow provinces and states to be chosen.

    Column Name: region_id

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the region_list table, and represents the
    region that this job is in.  This field only holds a value if the job is in a province
    or statue for which we allow regions to be chosen.

    Column Name: city

    Purpose: This is the city that this job is in.

    Column Name: salary_amount1

    Purpose: This is the lower end of the range of salary that this job offers.

    Column Name: salary_amount2

    Purpose: This is the upper end of the range of salary that this job offers.

    Column Name: salary_period

    Purpose: This is the period of time over which the above mentioned salary range is
    paid.

    Column Name: workterm_hours

    Purpose: This is roughly the number of hours that the successful applicant will be working each week.

    Column Name: workterm_lengths

    Purpose: This is the length (in months) that the workterm lasts for

    Column Name: other_postings

    Purpose: This is a string that holds the other places that this job has been posted at.

    Column Name: job_description

    Purpose: This is the description of what this job entails.

    Column Name: min_academic

    Purpose: This is the minimum number of academic years that the applicants must have completed.

    Column Name: min_workterms

    Purpose: This is the minimum number of workterms that the applicants must have completed.

    Column Name: special_requirements

    Purpose: These are any additional special requirements for the job that applicants must possess.

    Column Name: skills_required

    Purpose: These are the skills that applicants are expected to have.

    Column Name: comments

    Purpose: These are any additional comments that the employer has written, pertaining to this
    job posting.

    Column Name: date_added

    Purpose: This is the date that this job was entered into the system.

    Column Name: industry

    Purpose: This is a foreign key relating to the industries table, and represents the industry
    that the work involved with this job is primarily involved with.

    Column Name: ip_added_with

    Purpose: This is the IP address from which this job was added.

    Column Name: host_department

    Purpose: This is the department that the employer has expressed a preference that they host the job.

    Column Name: apply_departments

    Purpose: This is departments for which the employer has specified this job is applicable.

    Column Name: disciplines

    Purpose: If this job has less than 4 disciplines, this field represents all of the disciplines within
    the chosen departments, for which the employer has specified this job is applicable.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: sequential_job_code

Purpose: This table is used to generate new sequential job codes for jobs entered into the system.  Since
sequential job codes are reset every term, this table ensures that each job is assigned a new job code
unique to the term that job is in. Once a job is given its 'next_sequential_code' integer, the field is 
incremented by one, so that the next job code is one greater than the previous.  
Eg.  If this field held 934, with the corresponding year of 2003 and term of Fall, the next job's job 
code would be: 2003F-00934.  The one after that would be: 2003F-00935, and so on.


    Column Name: next_sequential_code

    Purpose: This column represents the integer that is appended to the year and term of
    the job, to create the complete job code.  Once a job is given an integer, this field
    is incremented by one, so that the next job code is one greater than the previous.

    Column Name: term_id

    Purpose: This is the term that this record is applicable to.

    Column Name: year

    Purpose: This is the year that this record is applicable to.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table Name: status

Purpose: This table keeps track of all the various statuses
that tasks can be assigned within feedback.


	Column Name: status_id

	Purpose: This is the id number used to keep track of the
	various different statuses.  This is the primary key
	for the table.

	Column Name: status_name

	Purpose: This is the name of the status.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
