 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 | Mamook(R) Software                                                           |
 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 | Copyright (c) 2000-2005 University of Victoria.  All rights reserved.        |
 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 | THE LICENSED WORK IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THE ADAPTIVE PUBLIC LICENSE |
 | ("LICENSE") AS FIRST COMPLETED BY: The University of Victoria. ANY USE,      |
 | PUBLIC DISPLAY, PUBLIC PERFORMANCE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF, OR      |
 | PREPARATION OF DERIVATIVE WORKS BASED ON, THE LICENSED WORK CONSTITUTES      |
 | RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS LICENSE AND ITS TERMS, WHETHER OR NOT SUCH    |
 | RECIPIENT READS THE TERMS OF THE LICENSE. "LICENSED WORK" AND "RECIPIENT"    |
 | ARE DEFINED IN THE LICENSE. A COPY OF THE LICENSE IS LOCATED IN THE TEXT     |
 | FILE ENTITLED "LICENSE.TXT" ACCOMPANYING THE CONTENTS OF THIS FILE. IF A     |
 | COPY OF THE LICENSE DOES NOT ACCOMPANY THIS FILE, A COPY OF THE LICENSE MAY  |
 | ALSO BE OBTAINED AT THE FOLLOWING WEB SITE: http://www.mamook.net            |  
 |                                                                              |
 | Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,   |
 | WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for |
 | the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.    | 
 +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Filename: traffic_director.txt                                               |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Description: This file is to serve as documentation to explain the 24 hour job hold, and the traffic director's role
throughout this process.

-- 24-hour job hold --

Purpose: The 24-hour job hold was created as a way to encouraged transparency of jobs, and allow all departments
at a given campus to make their students eligible to apply to a given job.

Procedure: Whenever a new job is posted by the host department, it enters the 24 hour hold.  This hold spans over
any weekend that it may fall onto, and weekends do not take away from the time a job spends in the 24 hour hold.
At any point throughout the week, a staff member may look through the jobs that are currently in the 24-hour hold.
If the staff member feels that a job currently on hold is applicable to the students of their department, they may 
make their department one of the applicable departments.  After a job has been held for 24 hours, it exits the 24-hour 
holding pattern, and automatically becomes posted.  Once a job has been posted, students from any of the departments 
that have been made applicable may apply to the job.

Weekends: As mentioned above, weekends do not take away from the time a job spends in the 24-hour hold.  If a job enters
the 24-hour hold at 8pm on Friday, it will remain on hold from that time, until 8pm the following Monday.

-- Traffic Director --

Obviously some jobs are time-sensitive, and may need to be posted immediately.  Additionally, a system such as
this one needs someone to ensure that everything operates smoothly, and to act as a single point of contact for
the many employers that wish to post jobs with the institution.  This is the role of the Traffic Director.

The Traffic Director is the only user (although their may be more than one individual given Traffic Director access) that
has the power to directly make a job's status 'Posted', avoiding the normally necessary 24-hour holding period for that job.
If departments are given a job that needs to be posted immediately, they can contact the Traffic Director and make a request
that they do so.

Whereas normally only the host department for a job can edit and make changes to that job, the Traffic Director is above
this rule, and may edit a job regardless of who is (or isn't) hosting that job.  This means that if a department misses
their opportunity to make themselves applicable for a given job while it is in the 24-hour hold, they have two options:
They can request that the host department for that job make their department applicable, or they can request that the
Traffic Director make the appropriate change.

-- New Employers and New Jobs --

One of the major benefits of a system like Mamook is the ability to allow first time employers
to enter a job immediately without waiting for authorization procedures to take place.  Obviously, any system like this
has the potential for abuse, and thus we have the third role of the Traffic Director: to evaluate and determine the
authenticity of new jobs and new employers.

Procedure: Whenever a first-time employer comes to Mamook to enter a job, contact and company information is collected from
them, along with a job description.  Once this has been completed, the contact, company, and job are all saved with a 'Incoming'
status

The Traffic Director may view all 'Incoming' jobs, contacts and companies from the Job Descriptions menu.  For each set of 
job, contact, and company viewed, the Traffic Director may either Approve the set, if the job, contact and company seem
legitimate, or Reject the set if they seem to be fake.  Once a job, contact, and company have been approved, the contact and
company are permanently saved in the system.  The job is also saved, and given a status of 'Not Checked', meaning that it needs
to be looked over before it enters the 24-hour hold.  

The 'Incoming' jobs page also shows all of the incomplete records that have recently been entered.  Traffic Directories may view
these records, and determine whether the employer may have become frustrated while trying to enter a job.  Should it be deemed that
this was the case, the Traffic Director can contact the employer, and follow up on the incomplete entry.  After having done so, 
the Traffic Director can delete the incomplete information from the system.

-- Jobs Without Host Departments --

When employers (both first-time and otherwise) enter jobs into the system, they have the option of choosing a preferred host
department for the job.  However, if no host department is specified, one needs to be assigned.  This is the last role of the 
Traffic Director.  In order to ensure that jobs are distributed evenly and logically across departments at an institution, the
Traffic Director represents an objective party that will assign jobs appropriately, allowing the avoidance of one department
having a reign of terror over jobs of a certain type, or political issues that may arise.

-- Adding a new Traffic Director --

Setting up a new Traffic Director is a relatively simple matter.  The contact will already need to exist in the database
as an internal contact.  To allow this contact to login as a Traffic Director, a new entry will need to be added into the
'contact_internal' table.  This entry should correspond to the contact's information that is held in the 'contact' table.
The same contact_id should be used (as contact_id in 'contact_internal' is a foreign key relating to the 'contact' table),
and the department_id should be set to whatever corresponds to the TRAFFIC_DIRECTOR_DEPARTMENT constant, set in the 
constants.inc file.

The constants.inc file also defines a constant called 'TRAFFIC_DIRECTOR_ID'.  This should hold the contact_id for the
primary Traffic Director.  This constant is used to draw out contact information when informing employers who they should
contact (for various reasons).  This is currently only used when an employer has forgotten their password, and wishes to
have it reset and e-mailed to them, but may be used in other locations later on.
